# quantifying-roi-of-campaign-contributions
### May 2025 - July 2025

Throughout ECO 6935 and ECO 6936 (Capstone in Business Analytics I and II), I produced quantifiable results regarding a U.S. House candidate's probability of winning and expected vote share given the magnitude, timing, and composition of donations. This involved reading previous research; understanding microeconomic, public choice, political science, and institutional theories; filtering, cleaning, and adjusting a dataset consisting of over 850 million observations; performing visual analysis; aggregating contribution data based on 'date before the election' (an automated process); fitting logistic regression models, logistic generalized additive models, ordinary least squares regression models, and linear generalized additive models; and reporting and interpreting the results.

Primarily, this project required my utilization of DuckDB, Python, and LaTeX. The magnitude of data included in the Database on Ideology, Money in Politics, and Elections (DIME) involved a difficult, thorough cleaning process in which DuckDB became incredibly useful. To complete this project, I wrote fourteen different Python scripts, making it easier to break down each component of the process. My final paper, documenting every relevant detail from my research, coding, results, interpretations, and conclusions, may be found in the MyPapers subdirectory. 

I used the Database on Ideology, Money in Politics, and Elections (DIME), organized by Adam Bonica. Due to the size of the original database, I drilled it down to just over a kilobyte. Unfortunately, I was still unable to upload my final database to this repository because of how large it is. If desired, contact me at hope.mullins@ucf.edu and I will send a compressed zip file with all the relevant folders and files, including the final database.
